So we had even more composition,
creating multiple similar virtual DOM
elements, each with different data,
using what we saw there, our post
function, that's our functional component.
Now, all of this, though,
becomes untenable in
terms of our performance.
For each of our changes in data,
while we as engineers get to
reason in an incredibly intuitive,
honestly, actually for UI engineering,
pretty intuitive manner.
Let's go back to this example here,
pretty intuitive manner here.
We get a list of described elements,
line four through six,
which then when the data
is set initially and
ongoing it's changed generates
the latest full description
with that data of what's
to be added to the page.
The DOM, the C++ element that then
shows up on the pixels itself,
it's pretty as far as it goes
intuitive one place create the DOM
that describes what's to be displayed
on the page from JavaScript.
Can you imagine we got
that from JavaScript,
the language that screen please don't
have anything that looks anything like
what's gonna show up on the page,
we really don't want it?
We managed to get that,
however, at a cost.
The cost being,
we are keeping things simple, but
we are replacing all of our DOM elements
in C++ on every change of data,
we are producing a brand-new
description of the page.
And then we are keeping it simple,
converting them each one by
one into actual DOM elements.
But wait We know from our virtual DOM,
our visual DOM,
our JavaScript description with
all the data funneled through it,
we know exactly what is to be displayed.
We also know from the previous data
before we had Li, we had an empty string,
we also know exactly what's
being displayed there.
What if we were to somehow use the actual
differences between our JavaScript
arrays to determine, not just wipe
the whole thing with brand-new elements?
But to write some sort of code
that actually only creates
the elements from scratch
on the first displaying.
And after that, just switch out
the specific content changes as needed.
We don't get to think about that though,
as developers, we just do our same thing.
Describe the relationship one-to-one and
write the handlers that change the data.
And then we had to do it here,
I didn't even write it out right.
I did Pseudocode because it's
just the same thing without,
well it's actually just
a representation of what's in our VDOM.
Just the same thing
wouldn't even be enough,
it's just a representation of
what's in our JavaScript VDOM.
So we are going to be able to
fix our performance issues.
We love the visual virtual DOM for
its semi,
semi visual coding,
however performance is a nightmare.
It always reminds me of a Michael McIntyre
skit that means nothing to anybody in
America.
We need some improvements, we're
updating our DOM every 15 milliseconds,
handlers, CSS animations,
and smooth scrolling.
So we've got two problems actually here.
We're also doing our update DOM that is
creating that bond between the data and
whatever's that's displayed without,
I'm gonna think about running it.
Instead, it just runs whenever the date,
well not whenever the data changes just
whenever, at all times pretty inefficient.
Can we simulate the auto updating view
from data change with a state hook?
I hope so, and then finally,
only to have our DOM elements
need recreated from scratch.
We can compare with dishing out
an archived version of a virtual DOM and
work out what changes to actually make
using an algorithm, which is clever code.
It's not gonna be too clever,
but clever enough, so here we go,
automatic update on data
change without looping.
So we're gonna use our existing diagram
here just to make some tweaks, so
rather than look down the line 29 there
rather than having update DOM
run on repeat with set interval.
And we could perhaps have update DOM run
recursively using request animation frame,
we'll see in a second.
But rather than doing that,
we are gonna have
update DOM only run when our data changes.
I don't wanna be back in the land where
I'm not guaranteed that what's in
here is directly represented on
the page because I changed my data and
forgot to run update DOM.
I know that sounds obvious,
like I should remember.
I don't know that date is changing
in many different places and
I got like every single time update DOM?
There must be a better way,
there must be a way
in which I could wrap up
my changing of my data and
a rerun of Update DOM
into one composite task.
How do I wrap up two lines of code
into a composite task, Alexa?
>> With a function.
>> With a function, exactly right.
I'm gonna simulate, give the impression
that all I'm doing in this
case when I run my handle function and
update my name from empty string.
In this case,
it was via the youth input to Lee,
that I am gonna do that through
a function that will update my name.
And when I call that function update name,
I'm gonna pass in,
in this case it would be Lee,
not assign it directly to name.
But pass it in,
where I will then assign Lee
to name and then run update DOM again.
So now update DOM is whenever my data
is changing is going to run, but
I'm not manually doing that.
I'm just restricting developers on
my team to only be allowed to change
state change data in JavaScript through
a function that updates my data.
And also low-key behind-the-scenes
updates, runs my update DOM function.
Let's generalize that a little
bit here with this code, and
we're gonna generalize that to work for
any data in a second.
But yeah, automatic update on
data change without looping.
Instead of directly updating name, we
can run a function update name to do so.
And of course it's low-key
running update DOM for
us behind the scenes because we wrapped
two lines of code in one with a function.
As long as we restrict our team, and we
would do that via obviously with some sort
of closure that locks down
access to our data and
ensures you can only change
it through a function.
But that function is also low-key
running the update DOM function,
which we've been running automatically.
Ensuring any change of data automatically
populates a jobs representation.
We don't think about when it changes,
it just changes.
It's happening so often it's been
repopulated every time and also,
most of the time when data hasn't changed,
that's a ridiculous thing,
that was super inefficient.
We were recreating with every
single time unnecessarily, right?
We do not need to run update DOM 60
times a second, where the user didn't
even change the data,
[LAUGH] that was pretty spurious behavior.
And so instead we're gonna bring
back only running update DOM
that creates the JavaScript
representation of it,
that creates the underlying
DOM elements in C++.
Only do that when data actually changes,
but I don't wanna be thinking about, data
change, make sure I re-update my page.
No, that's back to the old, it's not
terrible, it's just it's not ideal,
I'd rather not have to do that.
How can I get around that?
By creating a function that
both updates my data, and
low-key also reruns my update DOM
function, that does the job of
converting that data into the jobs
representation with create DOM call.
And then maps over creates all the
associated elements in the corresponding
items in the real DOM.
And then we get our access to
objects that allow us to append or
replace the existing elements with those
new elements and they get displayed.